.TH SCOUNT 1 "January 2026" "Alphanet/STCL" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
scount \- A tool to count logical lines of code and other metrics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scount
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-\-annotate\-counts\fR]
[\fB\-\-stop\-on\-error\fR]
.I <PATH>
.SH DESCRIPTION
scount counts source code lines in a single file
or all files in a directory as specified by
.IR PATH .
.PP
When the
.B \-\-annotate\-counts
option is used, scount marks counted logical lines and writes the
annotated source to standard output. This option can only be used when
.I PATH
refers to a single input file.
.PP
The output uses the following abbreviations for the computed metrics:
.TS
box left tab(|);
Cb Cb
L L.
Abbr.|Description
LLC|Logical lines of code
PHL|Hard physical lines
WRD|Number of words
CHR|Number of characters
SZE|File size in bytes
.TE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I <PATH>
The path to the input file or directory to process.
.br
This is a mandatory argument.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-annotate\-counts
Mark counted logical lines and output the result.
.br
This option can only be used on a single file input.
.TP
.B \-\-stop\-on\-error
Stop the processing on the first encountered error,
even for non\-critical errors.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-#, \-\-version
Show program version information.
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show a help message.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The operation has completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
An invalid argument was provided.
.TP
.B 2
A file given as an input was invalid.
.TP
.B 3
Nothing was processed for the given input.
.TP
.B 4
An I/O error has occurred for the input or output stream.
.TP
.B 126
An unspecified error has occurred.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Count lines in a directory tree:
.RS
.nf
scount /path/to/project
.fi
.RE
.TP
Annotate logical lines and write to separate source file:
.RS
.nf
scount \-\-annotate\-counts mysrc.c > mymysrc_annotated.c
.fi
.RE
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to <https://github.com/raven-computing/reckon/issues>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Phil Gaiser
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2026 Raven Computing
.br
This software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation <https://docs.raven-computing.com/reckon/latest>
